Framework for Predicting and Modeling Stock Market Prices Based on Deep Learning Algorithms

The creation of trustworthy models of the equities market enables investors to make better-informed choices. A trading model may lessen the risks that are connected with investing and make it possible for traders to choose companies that offer the highest dividends. However, due to the high degree of correlation between stock prices, analysis of the stock market is made more difficult by batch processing approaches. The prediction of the stock market has entered a technologically advanced era with the advent of technological marvels such as global digitization. For this reason, artificial intelligence models have become very important due to the continuous increase in market capitalization. The novelty of the proposed study is the development of the robustness time series model based on deep leaning for forecasting future values of stock marketing. The primary purpose of this study was to develop an intelligent framework with the capability of predicting the direction in which stock market prices will move based on financial time series as inputs. Among the cutting-edge technologies, artificial intelligence has become the backbone of many different models that predict the direction of markets. In particular, deep learning strategies have been effective at forecasting market behavior. In this article, we propose a framework based on long short-term memory (LSTM) and a hybrid of a convolutional neural network (CNN-LSTM) with LSTM to predict the closing prices of Tesla, Inc. and Apple, Inc. These predictions were made using data collected over the past two years. The mean squared error (MSE), root mean squared error (RMSE), normalization root mean squared error (NRMSE), and Pearson's correlation (R) measures were used in the computation of the findings of the deep learning stock prediction models. Between the two deep learning models, the CNN-LSTM model scored slightly better (Tesla: R-squared = 98.37%; Apple: R-squared = 99.48%). The CNN-LSTM model showed a superior performance compared with the single deep learning LSTM and existing systems in predicting stock market prices.



