Background: Although immune microenvironment-related chemokines, extracellular matrix (ECM), and intrahepatic immune cells are reported to be highly involved in hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related diseases, their roles in diagnosis, prognosis, and drug sensitivity evaluation remain unclear. Here, we aimed to study their clinical use to provide a basis for precision medicine in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) via the amalgamation of artificial intelligence.Methods: High-throughput liver transcriptomes from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO), NODE (), the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), and our in-house hepatocellular carcinoma patients were collected in this study. Core immunosignals that participated in the entire diseases course of hepatitis B were explored using the "Gene set variation analysis " R package. Using ROC curve analysis, the impact of core immunosignals and amino acid utilization related gene on hepatocellular carcinoma patient's clinical outcome were calculated. The utility of core immunosignals as a classifier for hepatocellular carcinoma tumor tissue was evaluated using explainable machine-learning methods. A novel deep residual neural network model based on immunosignals was constructed for the long-term overall survival (LS) analysis. In vivo drug sensitivity was calculated by the "oncoPredict " R package.Results: We identified nine genes comprising chemokines and ECM related to hepatitis B virus-induced inflammation and fibrosis as CLST signals. Moreover, CLST was co-enriched with activated CD4+ T cells bearing harmful factors (aCD4) during all stages of hepatitis B virus pathogenesis, which was also verified by our hepatocellular carcinoma data. Unexpectedly, we found that hepatitis B virus-hepatocellular carcinoma patients in the CLST(high)aCD4(high) subgroup had the shortest overall survival (OS) and were characterized by a risk gene signature associated with amino acids utilization. Importantly, characteristic genes specific to CLST/aCD4 showed promising clinical relevance in identifying patients with early-stage hepatocellular carcinoma via explainable machine learning. In addition, the 5-year long-term overall survival of hepatocellular carcinoma patients can be effectively classified by CLST/aCD4 based GeneSet-ResNet model. Subgroups defined by CLST and aCD4 were significantly involved in the sensitivity of hepatitis B virus-hepatocellular carcinoma patients to chemotherapy treatments.Conclusion: CLST and aCD4 are hepatitis B virus pathogenesis-relevant immunosignals that are highly involved in hepatitis B virus-induced inflammation, fibrosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. Gene set variation analysis derived immunogenomic signatures enabled efficient diagnostic and prognostic model construction. The clinical application of CLST and aCD4 as indicators would be beneficial for the precision management of hepatocellular carcinoma.