A data mining approach to the prediction of corporate failure
This paper uses a data mining approach to the prediction of corporate failure. Corporate data consisting of failed and nonfailed quoted companies listed on the London Stock Exchange for the latest 20 years (1980 - 1999) was used for the empirical study. This paper initially uses four single classifiers - Discriminant Analysis, Logistic Regression, Neural Networks and C5.0 - each based on two feature selection methods for predicting corporate failure. Of the two feature selection methods - human judgement based on financial theory and ANOVA statistical method - we found the ANOVA method performs better than the human judgement method in all classifiers except discriminant analysis. The comprehensive usage of qualitative forecast and quantitative forecast is also a feature of the new model. To valid the new model, comparison analysis and multi-agent simulation were both applied. Besides, the application of multi-agent simulation made the new model able to guide the investors' operations in a real stock market. According to the theoretical proof, the comparison analysis and the simulation experiment, the new combination prediction model tends to be a powerful and applicable tool in making the investment decisions. Among the individual classifiers, decision trees and neural networks were found to provide the better results. Finally, a hybrid method that combines the best features of several classification models is developed to increase the prediction performance. The empirical tests show that such a hybrid method produces higher prediction accuracy than individual classifiers.The application of Artificial Intelligence (AI) to financial investment is a research area that has attracted extensive research attention since the 1990s, when there was an accelerated technological development and popularization of the personal computer. Since then, countless approaches have been proposed to deal with the problem of price prediction in the stock market.
