Determining the severity of dental crowding and the necessity of tooth extraction for orthodontic treatment planning are time-consuming processes and there are no firm criteria. Thus, automated assistance would be useful to clinicians. This study aimed to construct and evaluate artificial intelligence (AI) systems to assist with such treatment planning. The sports indicators of this experiment include regional GDP, total output of sports industry, sports practitioners, local financial sports expenditures, the number of policies, the number of people participating in physical exercise, and fitness venues and facilities. The realization results show that these variables develop at a relatively small rate under normal conditions, and then predict the data in the next few years under the healthy and sustainable development of the next few years through the mental model. A total of 3,136 orthodontic occlusal photographs with annotations by two orthodontists were obtained. Four convolutional neural network (CNN) models, namely ResNet50, ResNet101, VGG16, and VGG19, were adopted for the AI process. Using the intraoral photographs as input, the crowding group and the necessity of tooth extraction were obtained. Arch length discrepancy analysis with AI-detected landmarks was used for crowding categorization. Various statistical and visual analyses were conducted to evaluate the performance. The maxillary and mandibular VGG19 models showed minimum mean errors of 0.84 mm and 1.06 mm for teeth landmark detection, respectively. Analysis of Cohen’s weighted kappa coefficient indicated that crowding categorization performance was best in VGG19 (0.73), decreasing in the order of VGG16, ResNet101, and ResNet50. For tooth extraction, the maxillary VGG19 model showed the highest accuracy (0.922) and AUC (0.961). By utilizing deep learning with orthodontic photographs, dental crowding categorization and diagnosis of orthodontic extraction were successfully determined. According to the distribution of experimental data, a specific conclusion can be drawn; that is, the test model we choose can calculate and measure the physical fitness level of students, but there are big differences. In contrast, our experimental method using the ensemble computing model can not only predict and analyze the physical fitness level of college students but also reduce errors and shorten the time required for the experiment.