Cloud computing and artificial intelligence are now widely used for classroom teaching in higher learning institutes. The digital teaching supported to ICT technologies in colleges serves as a central point for the advancement of modern education; and has become as a mode of instruction and an approach to teaching. Digital teaching has emerged as a major driving force in the advancement of digital economy and digitization of education in colleges. There is still a certain deviation between the current artificial intelligence technology and the traditional learning mode, which makes it unable to be effectively applied in teaching and learning. Therefore, an effective method needs to be proposed to use functions to predict data. In this paper, we investigate the movable information management system utilized in the digital teaching using edge computing and 5G wireless communication technology. Furthermore, we explain the idea of a mobile data scheme and presents a teaching platform based on the edge computing and 5G-enabled wireless communication technology. The main objective of this work is to develop a digital teaching framework for college students that, in fact, enables digital teaching, the collection, and incorporation of teaching information, the provision of modern education, and sharing of resources. Cutting-edge technology advancements in the educational platform have the potential to improve 5G communication. To implement the cutting-edge technology, all types of technological devices, smart devices, and gadgets from the Internet of Things (IoT) platform are used. We evaluated the proposed system through reasonable assumptions and numerical simulations. The experimental results reveal that the suggested system has significantly improved the teaching efficiency with which digital teaching management is managed in colleges. Moreover, the edge and 5G technology can significantly improve the system performance, in terms of response time, that can be as high as 11.45% when compared to non-cloud based approaches. Finally, based on the golden sine algorithm-optimization neural network, the application model of college physical education in this paper is evaluated. Through experiments and investigations, the new teaching mode improves the teaching efficiency by 14.7%, improves the teaching quality, and provides reference for the next development of IoT and AI in teaching.